We're going to see a problem that developed with the security group,
and then we're going to explain why it happened.
Now, if you remember, when we declare security groups,
we have egress rules and ingress rules.
Now, the web servers that we have,
they're not running on a standard port.
They are running on port 8080 as opposed to what will be
the default port 80 where you would see most web applications.
This is good. This is something that you can do for security reasons,
or just to make it harder for hackers to try to break into your application.
So what happened was,
I'm going to show you the security groups that we have here in the EC2 Console.
One of the security that we have defined in our stack,
is the one that assigns to a load balancer,
this one we're looking at right here.
The way we have it in our script,
is we have port 80.
But we have it not only as inbound,
but we also have it as outbound.
That's a mistake. You're basically limiting the ability to the load balancer
to talk to anything other than an HTTP port 80 to other resources.
You don't want that. In this case,
we have a custom port 8080,
for our web application and it was not able to talk to those application.
So I came here manually.
I click edit, and I added a custom rule which we can use in order to add ports.
However, I just created another situation that you need to be aware
of when you are a CloudFormation developer.
I just created what is known as configuration drift.
What that means is, I made a change here in the console,
but that change is not in our script.
That is very risky because at the end of the day you go home,
you come back the next day and you forget that you have this change
and the change is only here in this console,
and it's not in your script.
So in the future, two months, three months later,
you deploy that very same script into
production or some other environment and it's going to
have that bug introduced to the new environment outside of this account.
So keep that in mind,
keep drift in mind.
Whenever you make a change directly here,
go back to your script and correct.
So if we go to the name that was provided to us.
This is the name of the load balancer.
This is the name that AWS provides us for the load balancer.
Like I said, they have a DNS service which you can use to
turn this into an alias that will point to your business.com,
and then everything will be okay.
You don't have to give your clients this
horribly long DNS name to access your web application,
which as you can see is running.
I also move the application,
and this is just for demo purposes.
I would not do this with the real application.
I put the application for now in our public subnets,
so we can actually hit it directly.
So our load balancer has three targets,
which were created by the auto scaling group,
and those are three targets.
Now they have a public IP because I moved it to the public subnets,
again, just for demo purposes.
So if I hid this IP directly,
I should be able to get the response from the server.
However, not on port 80 because as you can see it's not responding.
So if I change it to port 8080,
which is the actual service port for this web server,
we get a respond right away.
As you can see, and it's the exact same response that you get from the load balancer.
If you want to know what really the interesting part of the load balancer is,
it's that you can refresh as many times as you need,
it knows where to send traffic.
Of course the most interesting option is eliminating single points of failure,
where I can come here and terminate one of
these servers and totally kill it and it will know that it's been removed.
As you can see, I can still refresh
and still get a response from my web application even though I killed one of the servers.
That's the main goal of high availability and the reason why you
use a load balancer in combination with auto scaling groups.